p3 reserach methodologies and which one I chose, m2 compare and justifying what I chose

Waterfall Model, One of the only models back in the 1980s. Games were simple 2d pixel graphic games, game were short, easy. Handful of people could make a game. Ideas for games such as pac man or pong were simple. Now games are far more complex, games now are very cinematic, interactive sotries. comples stories, better graphics. Artists use seperate software to be able to be more creative when creating a game, for example blender for rigging and other software to design textures for materials. Developers constatly change and improve on the level to make it suitable for a game, for example on a competitive game the level will need to be competitive enough. The teams that are involved are more diverse. Handful of people could create a smple 2d back in the 1980s, now companies get people from different areas, such as animaters, progammers, script writers, artists, sound engineers. Whole teaams of people, back in the 80s script writeres werent used by companies. Now a simple step by step model is impossible, now it needs to be an itterative model so it can be constantly improved. Different companies will have their wn method, or use a simular one but tweak it in their own way, examples are spiral or agile, but spiral takes more time, spiral prevents risks by anaysing them so takes more time, so isnt used as much.

Initiation, ideas are brought up, fesability of the game, what style of game, use focus groups
Pre production, designing takes place, planning, story ideas, roughtly design levels, whats the objective/goal.
Production phase - build the first level or character in isolation to test the character
testing/review, testing what they have done to get a feel. maybe not action packed enough or something, so by testing you can redesign and change for the next iteration. This is the alpha stage.
Once this cycle is done and the company is happy it goes into beta stage.
Beta stage is releasing it to other people to test, these people arent biased towards the game. Bugs can be found in this stage as devs know the levels maybe? or THe more people the more bugs that will be found, or people will be testing on differnt hardware, OSs, more variety of what the game will be played on to test if it will work correctly on different specs. Closed Beta is selected people and open beta is everyone who wants too. After beta esting it can go bac into production to fix things Beta is to get reviews and feedback from the audience to improve the game.

Scrum, scrum is a from of agile model, agile sits at the time as principles that need to be followed, scrum is a concrete implementation under agile.
Games are developed in short iterations/sprints. A part of the game will be ready at the end of each sprint, an example is the player character, how it moves, abilites, eg. At the end of each day over the course of four weeks for example the team gets together to discuss and this may lrad to something getting changed.Very flexable and abaptive model, things are very easy to change, and at the end of the sprint a part of the game will be complete.

P3
Research these different methodologies, maybe custom game ones, detire which I selected. maybe draw a breif model that in following. for merit, directly compare models, whats the advantages, which is better, disabdavnatges, whats the fkaws, when is this one better than this one in situations, justify the model i chose, and why i didnt chose the others, spiral has too must risk assesment, waterfall you cant go back and change something.

In document, evaluate the impact of the suggestions, one aspect of the game there may be a tmer to complete it, evaluate the mpact of this, why am i doing this, for exampe makeing it more intense or competitive, what am i doing this and justify it. why is this important.